DOCSP-32634: Add Indexes page (#206)
mongodb/docs-csharp: source/fundamentals/indexes.txt

.. literalinclude:: /includes/fundamentals/code-examples/Indexes.cs
   :language: csharp
   :start-after: begin-single-index-query
   :end-before: end-single-index-query
   :dedent:

For more information, see :manual:`Single Field Indexes </core/index-single>` in the Server manual.

Compound Indexes
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

**Compound indexes**  hold references to multiple fields within a collection's documents,
improving query and sort performance.

The following example creates a compound index on the ``type`` and ``rated`` fields within
the ``sample_mflix.movies`` collection:

.. literalinclude:: /includes/fundamentals/code-examples/Indexes.cs
   :language: csharp
   :start-after: begin-compound-index
   :end-before: end-compound-index
   :dedent:

The following is an example of a query that is covered by the index
created in the preceding code snippet:

.. literalinclude:: /includes/fundamentals/code-examples/Indexes.cs
   :language: csharp
   :start-after: begin-compound-index-query
   :end-before: end-compound-index-query
   :dedent:

For more information, see :manual:`Compound Indexes </core/index-compound>` in the Server manual.

Multikey Indexes
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> **Multikey indexes**  are indexes that improve performance for queries that specify a
> field with an index that contains an array value. You can define a multikey index using

Reviewer: Although this is the description we use on other pages, I think it's too wordy and hard to understand. I think the description they use on the Server docs is a little better:
```suggestion
**Multikey indexes** collect and sort data from fields containing array values. You can define a multikey index using
```

(an array of Strings), and ``title`` fields within the ``sample_mflix.movies`` collection:

.. literalinclude:: /includes/fundamentals/code-examples/Indexes.cs
   :language: csharp
   :start-after: begin-multi-key-index
   :end-before: end-multi-key-index
   :dedent:

The following is an example of a query that is covered by the index created in the
preceding code snippet:

.. literalinclude:: /includes/fundamentals/code-examples/Indexes.cs
   :language: csharp
   :start-after: begin-multi-key-query
   :end-before: end-multi-key-query
   :dedent:

Multikey indexes behave differently from other indexes in terms of
query coverage, index bound computation, and sort behavior. To learn more about multikey
indexes, including a discussion of their behavior and limitations, see the
:manual:`Multikey Indexes page </core/index-multikey>` in the Server manual.

Clustered Indexes
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

**Clustered indexes** instruct a collection to store documents ordered by a key value.
To create a clustered index, specify the clustered index
option with the ``_id`` field as the key and the ``Unique`` field as
``true`` when you create your collection.

> The following example creates a clustered index on the ``_id`` field in
> the ``tea.vendors`` collection:

Reviewer: To be more inline with the other examples on this page, can we make this example create a new collection in the sample_mflix database instead of a new tea database? I also think it could be reworded a bit:
```suggestion
The following example creates a clustered index on the ``_id`` field while creating a new ``tea.vendors`` collection:
```

.. code-block:: csharp

    var teaDatabase = mongoClient.GetDatabase("tea");
    var clusteredIndexOptions = new ClusteredIndexOptions<Vendor> 
    { 
        Key = new BsonDocument("_id", 1),
        Unique = true
    };

    teaDatabase.CreateCollection("vendors", new CreateCollectionOptions<Vendor>
    {
        ClusteredIndex = clusteredIndexOptions
    });

To learn more, see

> :v6.0:`Clustered Indexes </reference/method/db.createCollection/#std-label-db.createCollection.clusteredIndex>` and
> :v6.0:`Clustered Collections </core/clustered-collections>`.

Reviewer: Update to :manual: tags so it's not linking to an old version
```suggestion
:manual:`Clustered Indexes </reference/method/db.createCollection/#std-label-db.createCollection.clusteredIndex>` and
:manual:`Clustered Collections </core/clustered-collections>` in the Server manual.
```

   :atlas:`Atlas Search </atlas-search/>`. To learn more about Atlas Search
   indexes and how to use them, see the :ref:`search-indexes` section of this
   guide.

Single Field
++++++++++++

The following example creates a text index on the ``plot`` field within the
``sample_mflix.movies`` collection:

.. literalinclude:: /includes/fundamentals/code-examples/Indexes.cs
   :language: csharp
   :start-after: begin-text-index
   :end-before: end-text-index
   :dedent:

The following query uses the text index created in the preceding code snippet:

.. literalinclude:: /includes/fundamentals/code-examples/Indexes.cs
   :language: js
   :start-after: begin-text-query
   :end-before: end-text-query
   :dedent:

Multiple Fields
+++++++++++++++

A collection can only contain one text index. If you want to create a
text index for multiple text fields, you must create a compound
index. A text search runs on all the text fields within the compound
index.

The following snippet creates a compound text index for the ``title`` and ``genre``
fields within the ``sample_mflix.movies`` collection:

.. code-block:: csharp

    collection.Indexes.CreateOne("{ title : \"text\", genre: \"text\" }");

> For more information, see :manual:`Compound Text Index Restrictions </core/index-text/#std-label-text-index-compound>`

Reviewer: I think this section moved:
```suggestion
For more information, see :manual:`Compound Text Index Restrictions </core/indexes/index-types/index-text/text-index-restrictions/#compound-text-index>`
```

and :manual:`Text Indexes </core/index-text>` in the Server manual.

Geospatial Indexes
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

MongoDB supports queries of geospatial coordinate data using **2dsphere
indexes**. With a 2dsphere index, you can query the geospatial data for
inclusion, intersection, and proximity.

To create a 2dsphere index, you must specify a field that contains

> only **GeoJSON objects**. For more details on this type, see the MongoDB
> Server manual page on :manual:`GeoJSON objects </reference/geojson>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
only **GeoJSON objects**. For more details on this type, see :manual:`GeoJSON objects </reference/geojson>` in the MongoDB Server manual.
```

The ``location.geo`` field in the following sample document from the
``sample_mflix.theaters`` collection is a GeoJSON Point object that describes the
coordinates of the theater:

.. code-block:: json

   {
      "_id" : ObjectId("59a47286cfa9a3a73e51e75c"),
      "theaterId" : 104,
      "location" : {
         "address" : {
            "street1" : "5000 W 147th St",
            "city" : "Hawthorne",
            "state" : "CA",
            "zipcode" : "90250"
         },
         "geo" : {
            "type" : "Point",
            "coordinates" : [
               -118.36559,
               33.897167
            ]
         }
      }
   }

The following example creates a ``2dsphere`` index on the ``location.geo`` field:

.. important::

>    Attempting to create a geospatial index on a field that is covered by a geospatial index results in an error.

Reviewer: I think this is more clear (if I got the meaning correct)
```suggestion
   Attempting to create a geospatial index on a field that is already covered by a geospatial index results in an error.
```

.. literalinclude:: /includes/fundamentals/code-examples/Indexes.cs
   :language: csharp
   :start-after: begin-geospatial-index
   :end-before: end-geospatial-index
   :dedent:

The following is an example of a geospatial query using the "location.geo" index:

.. literalinclude:: /includes/fundamentals/code-examples/Indexes.cs
   :language: csharp
   :start-after: begin-geospatial-query
   :end-before: end-geospatial-query
   :dedent:

MongoDB also supports ``2d`` indexes for calculating distances on a Euclidean plane and
for working with the "legacy coordinate pairs" syntax used in MongoDB 2.2 and earlier.

> To learn more, see :manual:`Geospatial Queries </geospatial-queries>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To learn more, see :manual:`Geospatial Queries </geospatial-queries>` in the Server manual.
```

values of the ``location`` field within the ``sample_mflix.theaters`` collection,
including values nested in subdocuments and arrays:

.. literalinclude:: /includes/fundamentals/code-examples/Indexes.cs
   :language: csharp
   :start-after: begin-wildcard-index
   :end-before: end-wildcard-index
   :dedent:

For more information, see the :manual:`Wildcard Indexes</core/index-wildcard>` page in the
Server manual.

.. _search-indexes:

Atlas Search Indexes
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The Atlas Search feature enables you to perform full-text searches on collections hosted
on MongoDB Atlas. The indexes specify the behavior of the search and which fields to
index.

To learn more about MongoDB Atlas Search, see the :atlas:`Atlas Search Indexes </atlas-search/atlas-search-overview/#fts-indexes>`
documentation.

.. note::

   The Atlas Search Index management methods run asynchronously. The
   driver methods can return before confirming that they ran
   successfully. To determine the current status of the indexes, call the
   `IMongoSearchIndexManager.List() <{+new-api-root+}/MongoDB.Driver/MongoDB.Driver.Search.IMongoSearchIndexManager.List.html>`__ method.

> The following sections contain links to tutorials with code examples that demonstrate
> how to create and interact with Atlas Search indexes.

Reviewer: S: I think "with code examples" is implied here
```suggestion
The following sections contain links to tutorials that demonstrate
how to create and interact with Atlas Search indexes.
```

.. literalinclude:: /includes/fundamentals/code-examples/Indexes.cs
   :language: csharp
   :start-after: begin-unique-index
   :end-before: end-unique-index
   :dedent:

If you attempt to perform a write operation that stores a duplicate value
that violates the unique index, MongoDB will throw an error that resembles
the following:

.. code-block:: none
   :copyable: false

   E11000 duplicate key error index

To learn more, see :manual:`Unique Indexes </core/index-unique>` in the Server manual.

Wildcard Indexes
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

**Wildcard indexes** enable queries against unknown or arbitrary fields.
These indexes can be beneficial if you are using a dynamic schema.

The following example creates an ascending wildcard index on all
values of the ``location`` field within the ``sample_mflix.theaters`` collection,
including values nested in subdocuments and arrays:

.. literalinclude:: /includes/fundamentals/code-examples/Indexes.cs
   :language: csharp
   :start-after: begin-wildcard-index
   :end-before: end-wildcard-index
   :dedent:

For more information, see the :manual:`Wildcard Indexes</core/index-wildcard>` page in the
Server manual.

.. _search-indexes:

> Atlas Search Indexes

Reviewer 2: Given the confusion between `text` and Atlas Search indexes, I would suggest moving the two side-by-side for easier documentation and comparison. If you're following a standard cross-driver ordering, then it's fine to leave as-is.

+++++++++++++++++++++

Before you can perform a search on an Atlas collection, you must first
create an Atlas Search index on the collection. To learn how to create an Atlas Search
index using the {+driver-short+}, see :atlas:`Create an Atlas Search Index </atlas-search/create-index/>`
in the Atlas manual and select :guilabel:`C#` from the language dropdown.

List Search Indexes
+++++++++++++++++++

To learn how to view a list of your Atlas Search indexes using the {+driver-short+}, see
:atlas:`View an Atlas Search Index </atlas-search/view-index/>` in the Atlas manual
and select :guilabel:`C#` from the language dropdown.

Update a Search Index
+++++++++++++++++++++

To learn how to modify an existing Atlas Search index using the {+driver-short+}, see
:atlas:`Edit an Atlas Search Index </atlas-search/edit-index/>` in the Atlas manual
and select :guilabel:`C#` from the language dropdown.

Drop a Search Index
+++++++++++++++++++

To learn how to delete an Atlas Search index using the {+driver-short+}, see
:atlas:`Delete an Atlas Search Index </atlas-search/delete-index/>` in the Atlas manual
and select :guilabel:`C#` from the language dropdown.

List Indexes
------------

> You can use the `IMongoIndexManager<TDocument>.List() <{+new-api-root+}/MongoDB.Driver/MongoDB.Driver.IMongoIndexManager-1.List.html>`__

Reviewer: I'm not sure we need to list the interface here, imo it just makes things less clear since you don't actually call it like that in the code.

```suggestion
You can use the `List() <{+new-api-root+}/MongoDB.Driver/MongoDB.Driver.IMongoIndexManager-1.List.html>`__
```

method to retrieve a list of indexes in your collection.

> The following example uses the ``IMongoIndexManager<TDocument>.List()`` method to list

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example uses the ``List()`` method to list
```
